Why are we doing this?
There is very little information on what the candidate does after the elections are over. We believe people should have a right to know.

Vision - Platform for transparent government.

Description - With the new political scenario in India, there is a hope that a transparent government could exist as the new breed of non-corrupt  politicians are keen on working for the people. 
This initiative will develop an open source platform that can be used by the government to share vision along with intricate details with the people of India. The software once developed can be handed over to the government to manage, while upgrades can be performed by us, the people of India. At the end of day, politicians are accountable towards their people. Why shouldn’t there be a platform for people to keep track of their politicians.

Disclaimer - This is not intended towards a political party, but yes the motivation does come from AAP. There is a glimpse of hope that people running the government, if not corrupt, will share as much (non-sensitive) information as possible. 
There is no compulsion on any politicians to use this software, but if used to share information will definitely add to his / her credibility.

What features are we talking about?

Funds received by an MLA or MP for a given year.
 - List them with amounts in front of their names.
 - Date when received

Politician’s Plan for a given year.
 - How do they plan to spend this money?
 - What work is planned to be completed with these funds?
 - Progress report of each.
 - If not completed, reason for the same.

Politician’s Objectives
 - Overall objectives that the MLA or MP plans to achieve during his / her tenure.
 - Progress report for the above.
 - If not completed by the end of tenure, specific reasons.

Raise Concerns
 - Ability for a common man to raise specific issues (moderated by a volunteer)

More features are welcome.....



Where do we go from here - 

1. We need the bright minds in India to contribute towards this project:
  a. Visionaries
  b. Architects
  c. Really smart developers
  d. Testers
  e. Leaders to take this project to the government body.

2. We need to crystalize the vision. I am sure we can come up with great ideas and enhance.


The idea is to change the way we look at politicians and the way politicians looks at their responsibilities. We would be more than happy to receive feedback at admin@opensarkar.com

You must be wondering, why a .com extension. It was a mistake. Now that a small money has gone into it, I do not intend to buy another domain at least for now :)

Thanks,
Prakash

